# Fake Currency Detection Using Matlab
 Counterfeit notes are one of the biggest problems occurring in cash transactions. For country like India, it is becoming big hurdle. Because of the advances in printing, scanning technologies it is easily possible for a person to print fake notes with use of latest hardware tools. Detecting fake notes manually becomes time-consuming and untidy process hence there is need of automation techniques with which currency recognition process can be efficiently done. The advancement of color printing technology has increased the rate of fake currency note printing and duplicating the notes on a very large scale. Few years back, the printing could be done in a print house, but now anyone can print a currency note with maximum accuracy using a simple laser printer. As a result the issue of fake notes instead of the genuine ones has been increased very largely. India has been unfortunately cursed with the problems like corruption and black money . And counterfeit of currency notes is also a big problem to it. This leads to design of a system that detects the fake currency note in a less time and in a more efficient manner. The proposed system gives an approach to verify the Indian currency notes. Verification of currency note is done by the concepts of image processing. This article describes extraction of various features of Indian currency notes. MATLAB software is used to extract the features of the note. The proposed system has got advantages like simplicity and high performance speed. The result will predict whether the currency note is fake or not.
